# RISC-V-simulator-phase-2-and-3
	 	 	 	
GROUP_1_README
PHASE 2

How to execute Phase 2:
●	.mc file generated by phase1 must be in the same folder.
●	Compile in terminal using command “g++ phase2.cpp”.
●	Execute using “.\a.out” in Ubuntu and “a” in windows { after compiling “phase2.cpp” }. 
●	“ data_out.mem ” created as output.



This phase consisted of fetch stage,decode stage, execute stage, memory access stage and writeback stage.


Work Split:
	
1. Prateek Mehandiratta (2017csb1098): Fetch & Decode Stage.
●	All the instructions and data is stored in the memory. (Instruction  memory-> 0 to 1999, Data memory-> 2000 to 2999, Stack memory-> 3000 to 3999)
●	Initially, PC is set to address 0x0 and in fetch stage , IR is reading the content at PC and PC is incremented by 4.
●	In decode stage, Instructions are classified in their respective formats (R,I,S,SB,U,UJ) by decoding the opcode of inst. and then the different fields are extracted according to the format.
●	Registry file is read thereafter. 


2. Vaibhav Singh (2017csb1117): Execute Stage.
●	Assigned control line numbers to each instruction.
●	Then using decode stage, obtained the control line number and executed the instruction accordingly.
●	Wrote separate code chunks for each instruction.
●	Updated the required values in intermediate register Rz after calculating it so that it can be used in memory access stage.
	

3. Abhinav Khanna (2017csb1061): Memory Access & Write Back Stage.
●	Used the values stored in register Rz and Rm to store or load into memory array.
●	Depending on the Control Signals generated, different load and store instructions were performed
●	For Write back stage, again Control Signals were used to determine whether writeback was required, and if so, the number of the register.
●	Rz: Stored memory address to be executed
●	Rm: Element to be stored in the memory
●	Ry: Number of the register to be written

Instructions not supported:
●	Pseudo instructions
●	fence, fence.i
●	ecall, ebreak
●	 CSRRW, CSRRC, CSRRS, CSRRWI, CSRRSI, CSRRCI
